source/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1/Migrating-Parameters.rst, before:

.. redirect-from::

   Guides/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide
   Tutorials/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide
   How-To-Guides/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide

Migrating Parameters
====================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

In ROS 1, parameters are associated with a central server that allowed retrieving parameters at runtime through the use of the network APIs.
In ROS 2, parameters are associated per node and are configurable at runtime with ROS services.

* See `ROS 2 Parameter design document <https://design.ros2.org/articles/ros_parameters.html>`_ for more details about the system model.

* See :doc:`ROS 2 CLI usage <../../Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters>` for a better understanding of how the CLI tools work and its differences with ROS 1 tooling.

Migrating YAML Parameter Files
------------------------------

This guide describes how to adapt ROS 1 parameters files for ROS 2.

YAML file example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

YAML is used to write parameters files in both ROS 1 and ROS 2.
The main difference in ROS 2 is that node names must be used to address parameters.
In addition to the fully qualified node name, we use the key "ros__parameters" to signal the start of parameters for the node.


For example, here is a parameters file in ROS 1:

.. code-block:: yaml

   lidar_name: foo
   lidar_id: 10
   ports: [11312, 11311, 21311]
   debug: true

Let's assume that the first two parameters are for a node named ``/lidar_ns/lidar_node_name``, the next parameter is for a node named ``/imu``, and the last parameter we want to set on both nodes.

We would construct our ROS 2 parameters file as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

   /lidar_ns:
     lidar_node_name:
       ros__parameters:
         lidar_name: foo
         id: 10
   imu:
     ros__parameters:
       ports: [2438, 2439, 2440]
   /**:
     ros__parameters:
       debug: true

Note the use of wildcards (``/**``) to indicate that the parameter ``debug`` should be set on any node in any namespace.

Feature parity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some features of ROS 1 parameters files do not exist in ROS 2:

- Mixed types in a list is not supported yet (`related issue <https://github.com/ros2/rcl/issues/463>`_)
- ``deg`` and ``rad`` substitutions are not supported

Commit message:

Accessing parameters loaded from YAML file (#4929)
* docs(migrating_parameters): added hint regarding usage of dots instead of slashes while accessing params in ROS 2

* docs(python_params_in_class) : accessing params from YAML file

* docs(cpp_params_in_class) : accessing params from YAML file

* replaced :doc: with :ref: in reference

* shorter description of setting params via YAML file - added references instead

* added directions towards intermediate tutorials

* docs(Understanding parameters): added comment regarding dots usage while separating params namespaces and name

source/How-To-Guides/Migrating-from-ROS1/Migrating-Parameters.rst, after:

.. redirect-from::

   Guides/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide
   Tutorials/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide
   How-To-Guides/Parameters-YAML-files-migration-guide

Migrating Parameters
====================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

In ROS 1, parameters are associated with a central server that allowed retrieving parameters at runtime through the use of the network APIs.
In ROS 2, parameters are associated per node and are configurable at runtime with ROS services.

* See `ROS 2 Parameter design document <https://design.ros2.org/articles/ros_parameters.html>`_ for more details about the system model.

* See :doc:`ROS 2 CLI usage <../../Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters>` for a better understanding of how the CLI tools work and its differences with ROS 1 tooling.

Migrating YAML Parameter Files
------------------------------

This guide describes how to adapt ROS 1 parameters files for ROS 2 and illustrates the difference in the way parameters can be accessed from the node level.

YAML file example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

YAML is used to write parameters files in both ROS 1 and ROS 2.
The main difference in ROS 2 is that node names must be used to address parameters.
In addition to the fully qualified node name, we use the key "ros__parameters" to signal the start of parameters for the node.


For example, here is a parameters file in ROS 1:

.. code-block:: yaml

   lidar_name: foo
   lidar_id: 10
   ports: [11312, 11311, 21311]
   debug: true

Let's assume that the first two parameters are for a node named ``/lidar_ns/lidar_node_name``, the next parameter is for a node named ``/imu``, and the last parameter we want to set on both nodes.

We would construct our ROS 2 parameters file as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

   /lidar_ns:
     lidar_node_name:
       ros__parameters:
         lidar_name: foo
         id: 10
   imu:
     ros__parameters:
       ports: [2438, 2439, 2440]
   /**:
     ros__parameters:
       debug: true

Note the use of wildcards (``/**``) to indicate that the parameter ``debug`` should be set on any node in any namespace.

Accessing parameters inside node
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's say we want to use ``lidar_name`` parameter inside C++/Python node.
In ROS 1, we used slashes to separate node name and namespaces - ``"lidar_ns/lidar_node_name/lidar_name"``.
In ROS 2, we use dots instead of slashes - ``"lidar_ns.lidar_node_name.lidar_name"``.

Feature parity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some features of ROS 1 parameters files do not exist in ROS 2:

- Mixed types in a list is not supported yet (`related issue <https://github.com/ros2/rcl/issues/463>`_)
- ``deg`` and ``rad`` substitutions are not supported
