source/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters.rst, before:

.. redirect-from::

    Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters

.. _ROS2Params:

Understanding parameters
========================

**Goal:** Learn how to get, set, save and reload parameters in ROS 2.

**Tutorial level:** Beginner

**Time:** 5 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

A parameter is a configuration value of a node.
You can think of parameters as node settings.
A node can store parameters as integers, floats, booleans, strings, and lists.
In ROS 2, each node maintains its own parameters.
For more background on parameters, please see :doc:`the concept document <../../../Concepts/Basic/About-Parameters>`.

Prerequisites
-------------

This tutorial uses the :doc:`turtlesim package <../Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.

As always, don't forget to source ROS 2 in :doc:`every new terminal you open <../Configuring-ROS2-Environment>`.

Tasks
-----

1 Setup
^^^^^^^

Start up the two turtlesim nodes, ``/turtlesim`` and ``/teleop_turtle``.

Open a new terminal and run:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node

Open another terminal and run:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run turtlesim turtle_teleop_key


2 ros2 param list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To see the parameters belonging to your nodes, open a new terminal and enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param list

You will see the node namespaces, ``/teleop_turtle`` and ``/turtlesim``, followed by each node's parameters:

.. code-block:: console

  /teleop_turtle:
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability
    scale_angular
    scale_linear
    use_sim_time
  /turtlesim:
    background_b
    background_g
    background_r
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability
    use_sim_time

Every node has the parameter ``use_sim_time``; it's not unique to turtlesim.

Based on their names, it looks like ``/turtlesim``'s parameters determine the background color of the turtlesim window using RGB color values.

To determine a parameter's type, you can use ``ros2 param get``.


3 ros2 param get
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To display the type and current value of a parameter, use the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param get <node_name> <parameter_name>

Let's find out the current value of ``/turtlesim``'s parameter ``background_g``:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param get /turtlesim background_g

Which will return the value:

.. code-block:: console

    Integer value is: 86

Now you know ``background_g`` holds an integer value.

If you run the same command on ``background_r`` and ``background_b``, you will get the values ``69`` and ``255``, respectively.

4 ros2 param set
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To change a parameter's value at runtime, use the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param set <node_name> <parameter_name> <value>

Let's change ``/turtlesim``'s background color:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param set /turtlesim background_r 150

Your terminal should return the message:

.. code-block:: console

  Set parameter successful

And the background of your turtlesim window should change colors:

.. image:: images/set.png

Setting parameters with the ``set`` command will only change them in your current session, not permanently.
However, you can save your settings and reload them the next time you start a node.

5 ros2 param dump
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can view all of a node's current parameter values by using the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param dump <node_name>

The command prints to the standard output (stdout) by default but you can also redirect the parameter values into a file to save them for later.
To save your current configuration of ``/turtlesim``'s parameters into the file ``turtlesim.yaml``, enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param dump /turtlesim > turtlesim.yaml

You will find a new file in the current working directory your shell is running in.
If you open this file, you'll see the following content:

.. code-block:: YAML

  /turtlesim:
    ros__parameters:
      background_b: 255
      background_g: 86
      background_r: 150
      qos_overrides:
        /parameter_events:
          publisher:
            depth: 1000
            durability: volatile
            history: keep_last
            reliability: reliable
      use_sim_time: false

Dumping parameters comes in handy if you want to reload the node with the same parameters in the future.

6 ros2 param load
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can load parameters from a file to a currently running node using the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param load <node_name> <parameter_file>

To load the ``turtlesim.yaml`` file generated with ``ros2 param dump`` into ``/turtlesim`` node's parameters, enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param load /turtlesim turtlesim.yaml

Your terminal will return the message:

.. code-block:: console

  Set parameter background_b successful
  Set parameter background_g successful
  Set parameter background_r successful
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter use_sim_time successful

.. note::

  Read-only parameters can only be modified at startup and not afterwards, that is why there are some warnings for the "qos_overrides" parameters.

7 Load parameter file on node startup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To start the same node using your saved parameter values, use:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 run <package_name> <executable_name> --ros-args --params-file <file_name>

This is the same command you always use to start turtlesim, with the added flags ``--ros-args`` and ``--params-file``, followed by the file you want to load.

Stop your running turtlesim node, and try reloading it with your saved parameters, using:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node --ros-args --params-file turtlesim.yaml

The turtlesim window should appear as usual, but with the purple background you set earlier.

.. note::

  When a parameter file is used at node startup, all parameters, including the read-only ones, will be updated.

Summary
-------

Nodes have parameters to define their default configuration values.
You can ``get`` and ``set`` parameter values from the command line.
You can also save the parameter settings to a file to reload them in a future session.

Next steps
----------

Jumping back to ROS 2 communication methods, in the next tutorial you'll learn about :doc:`actions <../Understanding-ROS2-Actions/Understanding-ROS2-Actions>`.

Commit message:

Accessing parameters loaded from YAML file (#4929)
* docs(migrating_parameters): added hint regarding usage of dots instead of slashes while accessing params in ROS 2

* docs(python_params_in_class) : accessing params from YAML file

* docs(cpp_params_in_class) : accessing params from YAML file

* replaced :doc: with :ref: in reference

* shorter description of setting params via YAML file - added references instead

* added directions towards intermediate tutorials

* docs(Understanding parameters): added comment regarding dots usage while separating params namespaces and name

source/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters.rst, after:

.. redirect-from::

    Tutorials/Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters

.. _ROS2Params:

Understanding parameters
========================

**Goal:** Learn how to get, set, save and reload parameters in ROS 2.

**Tutorial level:** Beginner

**Time:** 5 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

A parameter is a configuration value of a node.
You can think of parameters as node settings.
A node can store parameters as integers, floats, booleans, strings, and lists.
In ROS 2, each node maintains its own parameters.
For more background on parameters, please see :doc:`the concept document <../../../Concepts/Basic/About-Parameters>`.

Prerequisites
-------------

This tutorial uses the :doc:`turtlesim package <../Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.

As always, don't forget to source ROS 2 in :doc:`every new terminal you open <../Configuring-ROS2-Environment>`.

Tasks
-----

1 Setup
^^^^^^^

Start up the two turtlesim nodes, ``/turtlesim`` and ``/teleop_turtle``.

Open a new terminal and run:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node

Open another terminal and run:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 run turtlesim turtle_teleop_key


2 ros2 param list
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To see the parameters belonging to your nodes, open a new terminal and enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param list

You will see the node namespaces, ``/teleop_turtle`` and ``/turtlesim``, followed by each node's parameters:

.. code-block:: console

  /teleop_turtle:
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability
    scale_angular
    scale_linear
    use_sim_time
  /turtlesim:
    background_b
    background_g
    background_r
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history
    qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability
    use_sim_time

The namespaces of the parameter and its name are separated using dots as you can see, for example, in ``parameter_events.publisher.depth``.

Every node has the parameter ``use_sim_time``; it's not unique to turtlesim.

Based on their names, it looks like ``/turtlesim``'s parameters determine the background color of the turtlesim window using RGB color values.

To determine a parameter's type, you can use ``ros2 param get``.


3 ros2 param get
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To display the type and current value of a parameter, use the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param get <node_name> <parameter_name>

Let's find out the current value of ``/turtlesim``'s parameter ``background_g``:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param get /turtlesim background_g

Which will return the value:

.. code-block:: console

    Integer value is: 86

Now you know ``background_g`` holds an integer value.

If you run the same command on ``background_r`` and ``background_b``, you will get the values ``69`` and ``255``, respectively.

4 ros2 param set
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To change a parameter's value at runtime, use the command:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param set <node_name> <parameter_name> <value>

Let's change ``/turtlesim``'s background color:

.. code-block:: console

    ros2 param set /turtlesim background_r 150

Your terminal should return the message:

.. code-block:: console

  Set parameter successful

And the background of your turtlesim window should change colors:

.. image:: images/set.png

Setting parameters with the ``set`` command will only change them in your current session, not permanently.
However, you can save your settings and reload them the next time you start a node.

5 ros2 param dump
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can view all of a node's current parameter values by using the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param dump <node_name>

The command prints to the standard output (stdout) by default but you can also redirect the parameter values into a file to save them for later.
To save your current configuration of ``/turtlesim``'s parameters into the file ``turtlesim.yaml``, enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param dump /turtlesim > turtlesim.yaml

You will find a new file in the current working directory your shell is running in.
If you open this file, you'll see the following content:

.. code-block:: YAML

  /turtlesim:
    ros__parameters:
      background_b: 255
      background_g: 86
      background_r: 150
      qos_overrides:
        /parameter_events:
          publisher:
            depth: 1000
            durability: volatile
            history: keep_last
            reliability: reliable
      use_sim_time: false

Dumping parameters comes in handy if you want to reload the node with the same parameters in the future.

6 ros2 param load
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can load parameters from a file to a currently running node using the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param load <node_name> <parameter_file>

To load the ``turtlesim.yaml`` file generated with ``ros2 param dump`` into ``/turtlesim`` node's parameters, enter the command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 param load /turtlesim turtlesim.yaml

Your terminal will return the message:

.. code-block:: console

  Set parameter background_b successful
  Set parameter background_g successful
  Set parameter background_r successful
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.depth' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.durability' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.history' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability failed: parameter 'qos_overrides./parameter_events.publisher.reliability' cannot be set because it is read-only
  Set parameter use_sim_time successful

.. note::

  Read-only parameters can only be modified at startup and not afterwards, that is why there are some warnings for the "qos_overrides" parameters.

.. _LoadParameterFileOnNodeStartup:

7 Load parameter file on node startup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To start the same node using your saved parameter values, use:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 run <package_name> <executable_name> --ros-args --params-file <file_name>

This is the same command you always use to start turtlesim, with the added flags ``--ros-args`` and ``--params-file``, followed by the file you want to load.

Stop your running turtlesim node, and try reloading it with your saved parameters, using:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node --ros-args --params-file turtlesim.yaml

The turtlesim window should appear as usual, but with the purple background you set earlier.

.. note::

  When a parameter file is used at node startup, all parameters, including the read-only ones, will be updated.

Summary
-------

Nodes have parameters to define their default configuration values.
You can ``get`` and ``set`` parameter values from the command line.
You can also save the parameter settings to a file to reload them in a future session.

Next steps
----------

Jumping back to ROS 2 communication methods, in the next tutorial you'll learn about :doc:`actions <../Understanding-ROS2-Actions/Understanding-ROS2-Actions>`.
